Welcome back.
Let's start to actually write a test for the Google search function.
The first thing we want to do is obviously have access to this Google search function.
But in our test file and that's simple.
This is simply just javascript.
We can just export this function and import it in here now because this is node and we're now running
in the browser or using Babel or wetback.
We don't have the import and export statements yet.
No it is working on that.
But for now they're still using common Yes which as you might know has the syntax module that exports
equals.
And we'll just do the Google search.
We're going to export this.
And then finally we can import this at the very top of this test by saying Konst Google search equals
require from the script to
let's save that.
And just to test it legist console logged this and do a google search save Ron NPM s test.
All right.
So we have our console log of Google search that's on script dodginess but also in the past we see that
we're logging out function Google search which is great.
We're going to comment this up for now because we know it's working we don't want to console log.
But you might have also noticed that it's kind of annoying running NPM test over and over and over.
And luckily for us with gests we can do a nice easy command dash dash watch and then we give it what
to watch for in our case.
All javascript files.
So any time we make changes to any javascript files just is going to watch out for those and have the
test running constantly.
Let's see what I mean.
I'm going to save this and run NPM test.
And if you're wondering why your man NPM tests and not NPM run test Beths just the default of and PM
if you do and pm start or NPM test you came round those two commands without the run word.
But if you do anything that you created yourself like NPM bake a cake you have to do NPM run bake a
cake or so now it's running.
If I change anything in here to legist have save it.
You see that it's now changing.
If I change this It's constantly updating with the new test but nothing is happening in here yet.
So let's write an actual test that we can use now that we have the Google search function.
We want to test it.
We want to say Google search give us some sort of a dummy and put let's say test test and somehow say
whatever this returns should match whatever.
Remember that's an assertion library won't we want to make an assertion and you may notice.
One issue here.
What about the database.
Well we'll have to export this database as well.
Right.
And we totally Can we could do Google database and added to the module exports.
But is that realistic you see in real life you're not going to just export the database and imported
into a test and have the task to actually go through the database.
That's really expensive really slow and a huge headache.
Ideally you want a market you want to pretend that we have a database in here so that it makes tests
run faster.
Let me show you how we can do that.
We can just say D-B lock a database mocke and this mocke will have some dummy database which isn't actually
our real database just something that we can test on.
So let's say this one has dog dot com it has cheese puff dot com
it has let's say Disney dot com and it has dog pictures dot com so completely different from our real
database.
All right so we have this now but the problem is well Google search.
Up until this point was using the Google database.
And if you ran this function in script test yes.
Well we don't have access to that database.
We'd have to manually change the function and make sure that it filters through the DB mock in a good
way of solving this issue and the way you want to write your functions is again you want them to be
pure.
And you also want to add things to them like a database through something called dependency injection
that is in order for us to make this reusable and use it in other parts of our code base have the database
injected into Google search so that anybody using a can like I am in the test can inject this D-B mark
instead of the real database.
And that's really easy to do.
All we need to do is pass it a parameter of let's say D.B and I'm going to change this into D-B.
And now this Google search is more extensible we can add whatever database we want to filter.
Now all we need to do is in our what we call the function is to add a single parameter of Google database.
If we comment that out and go back to our test file we can enter the D-B maake database.
Let's save now and see what happens.
All right.
Test is passing but we're not really testing anything right now.
We're just returning things and running this function.
But that's not where we want to test.
It's not very meaningful that we run this function.
We want to assert that this does what we expected to do.
And again just like we had the keyword just gives us a nice little function for us to use.
If you go to using matchers we see that in their documentation they have the xpect and to be and they
have a few other things that you can use to be defined to be defined to be falsie truthy and they have
a ton.
For now let's comment this out and say that we expect hello to be Hello hello to equal Hello hard let's
say that all right everything is passing but if I change just to know and save Oh I get a failed test.
It says it expected the no value but received hello and it's got pretty nice output.
It shows you which line failed and what the test failed at.
Using that logic let's change now the Google search to have xpect And you know what.
Let's keep this test because I like this test will do.
Hello.
And calls this it is a silly test and create a nother test again we just have as many as we want and
this song will say it is searching google and here we'll have the function
let's add a space here because it looks nicer and we'll say that we expect Google search and we can
just copy this.
We expect Google search and we're running that function with test test D-B Mach..
And here we can use instead of to be.
We can also do two equal and within the two equal.
Now let me just create a new line just so you can see it.
It's going to say we expect it to equal an empty array because there's no test test here.
Let's save
Oh and I forgot a little bracket here.
We want the expect to have the result of this so we need an extra bracket over here.
So make sure you get that right.
Save all went.
You don't need that now.
Perfect.
Again maybe not having it on two lines is better.
So you can see.
So we have the expect function that runs this and to equal to test that this equals the empty array.
We can now add a nother line and let's say that now we want to expect Google to test dog and if dog
exists we wanted to include these two Web sites so we can add dog dot com to this array.
And also dog pictures dot com to this right.
And let's save.
All right.
This is running and passing.
We still have two tests because while the it there's only two of them.
But if I changed this to let's say that just D-G all get in there because we got something different
than what we expected we expected a different.
Eric There you go.
We have our very first test.
I'll see in the next video.
By.